# Find Statistical Outliers in a Meta-Analysis

Searches for statistical outliers in meta-analysis results generated by
[`meta`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/meta-package.html) functions or
the
[`rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/rma.uni.html)
in the `metafor` package.

## Usage

``` r
metapsyFindOutliers(x, ...)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  Either (1) an object of class `meta`, generated by the `metabin`,
  `metagen`, `metacont`, `metacor`, `metainc`, `metarate` or `metaprop`
  function; or (2) and object of class `rma.uni` created with the
  [`rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/rma.uni.html)
  function in `metafor`.

- ...:

  Additional parameters for the
  [`rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/rma.uni.html)
  or [`update.meta`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/update.meta.html)
  function.

## Value

Returns the identified outliers and the meta-analysis results when the
outliers are removed.

If the provided meta-analysis object is of class `meta`, the following
objects are returned if the results of the function are saved to another
object:

- `out.study.fixed`: A numeric vector containing the names of the
  outlying studies when assuming a fixed-effect model.

- `out.study.random`: A numeric vector containing the names of the
  outlying studies when assuming a random-effects model. The
  \\\tau^{2}\\ estimator `method.tau` is inherited from `x`.

- `m.fixed`: An object of class `meta` containing the results of the
  meta-analysis with outliers removed (assuming a fixed-effect model).

- `m.random`: An object of class `meta` containing the results of the
  meta-analysis with outliers removed (assuming a random-effects model,
  and using the same `method.tau` as in the original analysis).

If the provided meta-analysis object is of class `rma.uni`, the
following objects are returned if the results of the function are saved
to another object:

- `out.study`: A numeric vector containing the names of the outlying
  studies.

- `m`: An object of class `rma.uni` containing the results of the
  meta-analysis with outliers removed (using the same settings as in the
  meta-analysis object provided).

## Details

This function searches for outlying studies in a meta-analysis results
object. Studies are defined as outliers when their 95\\

When outliers are found, the function automatically recalculates the
meta-analysis results, using the same settings as in the object provided
in `x`, but excluding the detected outliers.

A forest plot of the meta-analysis with outliers removed can be
generated directly by plugging the output of the function into the
`forest` function.

## References

Harrer, M., Cuijpers, P., Furukawa, T.A, & Ebert, D. D. (2019). *Doing
Meta-Analysis in R: A Hands-on Guide*. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.2551803.
[Chapter
6.2](https://bookdown.org/MathiasHarrer/Doing_Meta_Analysis_in_R/detecting-outliers-influential-cases.html)

## See also

[`influence.rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/influence.rma.uni.html),
[`metainf`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/metainf.html),
[`baujat`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/baujat.html)

## Author

Mathias Harrer & David Daniel Ebert

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(meta))
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(metafor))
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(dmetar))

# Pool with meta
m1 <- metagen(TE, seTE, data = ThirdWave,
              studlab = ThirdWave$Author, comb.fixed = FALSE)

# Pool with metafor
m2 <- rma(yi = TE, sei = seTE, data = ThirdWave,
          slab = ThirdWave$Author, method = "PM")

# Find outliers
fo1 <- find.outliers(m1)
fo2 <- find.outliers(m2)

# Show summary
summary(fo1)
summary(fo2)

# Make forest plot
# Pass additional arguments from meta & metafor's forest function
forest(fo1, prediction = TRUE)
forest(fo2, cex = .8, col = "lightblue")
} # }
```
