# Influence Diagnostics

Conducts an influence analysis of a meta-analysis generated by
[`meta`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/meta-package.html) functions, and
allows to produce influence diagnostic plots.

## Usage

``` r
metapsyInfluenceAnalysis(x, random = FALSE, subplot.heights = c(30,18),
    subplot.widths = c(30,30), forest.lims = 'default',
    return.separate.plots = FALSE, text.scale = 1)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  An object of class `meta`, generated by the `metabin`, `metagen`,
  `metacont`, `metacor`, `metainc`, `metarate` or `metaprop` function.

- random:

  Logical. Should the random-effects model be used to generate the
  influence diagnostics? Uses the `method.tau` specified in the `meta`
  object if one of "`DL`", "`HE`", "`SJ`", "`ML`", "`REML`", "`EB`",
  "`PM`", "`HS`" or "`GENQ`" (to ensure compatibility with the
  [`metafor`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/metafor-package.html)
  package). Otherwise, the DerSimonian-Laird (`"DL"`; DerSimonian &
  Laird, 1986) estimator is used. `FALSE` by default.

- subplot.heights:

  Concatenated array of two numerics. Specifies the heights of the first
  (first number) and second (second number) row of the overall plot
  generated when plotting the results. Default is `c(30,18)`.

- subplot.widths:

  Concatenated array of two numerics. Specifies the widths of the first
  (first number) and second (second number) column of the overall
  results plot generated when plotting the results. Default is
  `c(30,30)`.

- forest.lims:

  Concatenated array of two numerics. Specifies the x-axis limits of the
  forest plots generated when plotting the results. Use `"default"` if
  standard settings should be used (this is the default).

- return.separate.plots:

  Logical. When plotted, should the influence plots be shown as separate
  plots in lieu of returning them in one overall plot?

- text.scale:

  Positive numeric. Scaling factor for the text geoms used when plotting
  the results. Values \<1 shrink the text, while values \>1 increase the
  text size. Default is `1`.

## Value

A `list` object of class `influence.analysis` containing the following
objects is returned (if results are saved to a variable):

- `BaujatPlot`: The Baujat plot

- `InfluenceCharacteristics`: The Viechtbauer-Cheung influence
  characteristics plot

- `ForestEffectSize`: The forest plot sorted by effect size

- `ForestI2`: The forest plot sorted by between-study heterogeneity

- `Data`: A `data.frame` containing the data used for plotting.

Otherwise, the function prints out (1) the results of the Leave-One-Out
Analysis (sorted by \\I^2\\), (2) the Viechtbauer-Cheung Influence
Diagnostics and (3) Baujat Plot data (sorted by heterogeneity
contribution), in this order. Plots can be produced manually by plugging
a saved object of class `InfluenceAnalysis` generated by the function
into the `plot` function. It is also possible to only produce one
specific plot by specifying the name of the plot as a `character` in the
second argument of the `plot` call (see Examples).

## Details

The function conducts an influence analysis using the "Leave-One-Out"
paradigm internally and produces data for four influence diagnostics.
Diagnostic plots can be produced by saving the output of the function to
an object and plugging it into the `plot` function. These diagnostics
may be used to determine which study or effect size may have an
excessive influence on the overall results of a meta-analysis and/or
contribute substantially to the between-study heterogeneity in an
analysis. This may be used for outlier detection and to test the
robustness of the overall results found in an analysis. Results for four
diagnostics are calculated:

- **Baujat Plot**: Baujat et al. (2002) proposed a plot to evaluate
  heterogeneity patterns in a meta-analysis. The x-axis of the Baujat
  plot shows the overall heterogeneity contribution of each effect size
  while the y-axis shows the influence of each effect size on the pooled
  result. The
  [`baujat`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/baujat.html)
  function is called internally to produce the results. Effect sizes or
  studies with high values on both the x and y-axis may be considered to
  be influential cases; effect sizes or studies with high heterogeneity
  contribution (x-axis) and low influence on the overall results can be
  outliers which might be deleted to reduce the amount of between-study
  heterogeneity.

- **Influence Characteristics**: Several influence analysis diagnostics
  proposed by Viechtbauer & Cheung (2010). Results are calculated by an
  internal call to
  [`influence.rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/influence.rma.uni.html).
  In the console output, potentially influential studies are marked with
  an asterisk (`*`). When plotted, effect sizes/studies determined to be
  influential cases using the "rules of thumb" described in Viechtbauer
  & Cheung (2010) are shown in red. For further details, see the
  documentation of the
  [`influence.rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/influence.rma.uni.html)
  function.

- **Forest Plot for the Leave-One-Out Analysis, sorted by Effect Size**:
  This displays the effect size and \\I^2\\-heterogeneity when omitting
  one of the \\k\\ studies each time. The plot is sorted by effect size
  to determine which studies or effect sizes particularly affect the
  overall effect size. Results are generated by an internal call to
  [`metainf`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/metainf.html).

- **Forest Plot for the Leave-One-Out Analysis, sorted by \\I^2\\**: see
  above; results are sorted by \\I^2\\ to determine the study for which
  exclusion results in the greatest reduction of heterogeneity.

## References

Harrer, M., Cuijpers, P., Furukawa, T.A, & Ebert, D. D. (2019). *Doing
Meta-Analysis in R: A Hands-on Guide*. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.2551803.
[Chapter
6.3](https://bookdown.org/MathiasHarrer/Doing_Meta_Analysis_in_R/influenceanalyses.html)

DerSimonian R. & Laird N. (1986), Meta-analysis in clinical trials.
*Controlled Clinical Trials, 7*, 177–188.

Viechtbauer, W., & Cheung, M. W.-L. (2010). Outlier and influence
diagnostics for meta-analysis. *Research Synthesis Methods, 1*, 112–125.

## See also

[`influence.rma.uni`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/influence.rma.uni.html),
[`metainf`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/meta/man/metainf.html),
[`baujat`](https://wviechtb.github.io/metafor/reference/baujat.html)

## Author

Mathias Harrer & David Daniel Ebert

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Load 'ThirdWave' data
data(ThirdWave)

# Create 'meta' meta-analysis object
suppressPackageStartupMessages(library(meta))
meta = metagen(TE, seTE, studlab = paste(ThirdWave$Author), data=ThirdWave)

# Run influence analysis; specify to return separate plots when plotted
inf.an = InfluenceAnalysis(meta, return.separate.plots = TRUE)

# Show results in console
inf.an

# Generate all plots
plot(inf.an)

# For baujat plot
plot(inf.an, "baujat")

# For influence diagnostics plot
plot(inf.an, "influence")

# For forest plot sorted by effect size
plot(inf.an, "ES")

# For forest plot sorted by I-squared
plot(inf.an, "I2")} # }
```
